---
title: Human-centric thinking
---

Humans are extremely focused on their own businesses. Yes, we are successful as a whole, in comparison to other creatures. But we are still part of nature. We follow its laws. Despite this, we neglect nature and the life of other species at scale.

Moreover, we value leaders, rulers and heroes amongst us much more than others. Even in fiction secondary characters usually die (who cares), while all hail goes to the main performers. We think that leaders are responsible for like 99% of the job done. Thus, we are trying to analyze them, rather than abstract patterns, situations and laws of nature. For example, from the popular culture it may look like Hitler was solely responsible for WWII and the Holocaust. Yeah, sure. How about WWI? Or any other war, genocide, mass conflict in human history? It’s silly to think that all these things were mainly because of leaders. This is just how humans work. In every moment in history there is a mix of wishes, intentions, beliefs, possibilities, thoughts of a total population. It could be that nature just picks a random guy as a leader that represents the mass.

On the other hand, we think that human is a singular, indivisible unit. That’s also not true. We are a composition of attributes, that are selected by evolution. Any child has some attributes from its mother and some attributes from its father. Human is a composable organism, the same is true for its mind. I’m sure that everyone experienced competing thoughts in his head. There is a natural selection of thoughts ongoing in the mind of every human.